this is a day I've been looking forward
to for two and a half years every once
in a while a revolutionary product comes
along that changes everything
and Apple has been well first of all
ones very fortunate if you get to work
on just one of these in your career
apples been very fortunate it's been
able to introduce a few of these into
the world 1984 we introduced the
Macintosh it didn't just change Apple it
changed the whole computer industry
in 2001 we introduced the first iPod and
it didn't just it didn't just change the
way we all listen to music it changed
the entire music industry well today
we're introducing three revolutionary
products of this class the first one is
a widescreen iPod with touch controls
the second is a revolutionary mobile
and the third is a breakthrough internet
communications device so three things a
widescreen iPod with touch controls a
revolutionary mobile phone and a
breakthrough internet communications
device an iPod a phone and an Internet
communicator an iPod a phone
these are not three separate devices
this is one device
and we are calling it iPhone
today
today Apple is going to reinvent the
phone and here it is
[Laughter]
now
actually here it is but we're gonna
leave it there for now so before we get
into it
let me let me talk about a category of
things the most advanced phones are
called smart phones so they say and they
typically combine a phone plus some
email capability plus they say it's the
internet or the baby internet into one
device and they all have these plastic
little keyboards on them and the problem
is that they're not so smart and they're
not so easy to use so if you kind of
make a you know business school 101
graph with a smart axis and the easy to
use axis phones regular cell phones are
kind of right there they're not so smart
and then they're you know not so easy to
use but smart phones are definitely a
little smarter but they actually are
harder to use they're really complicated
just for the basic stuff people have a
hard time figuring out how to use them
well we don't want to do either one of
these things what we want to do is make
a leapfrog product that is way smarter
than any mobile device has ever been and
super easy to use this is what iPhone is
okay so we're gonna reinvent the phone
now we're gonna start with a
revolutionary user interface is the
result of years of research and
development and of course it's an
interplay of hardware and software now
why do we need a revolutionary user
interface I mean here's four smartphones
right Motorola Q the BlackBerry palm
treo nokia e62 the usual suspects and
what's wrong with their user interfaces
well the problem with them is really
sort of in the bottom 40 there it's it's
this stuff right here they all have
these keyboards that are there whether
you need them or not to be there and
they all have these control buttons that
are fixed in plastic and are the same
for every application well every
application wants a slightly different
user interface a slightly optimized set
of buttons just
for it and what happens if you think of
a great idea six months from now you
can't run around and add a button to
these things they're already shipped so
what do you do it doesn't work because
the buttons and the controls can't
change they can't change for each
application and they can't change down
the road if you think of another great
idea you want to add to this product
well how do you solve this hmm
it turns out we have solved it we solved
it in computers 20 years ago we solved
it with a bitmap screen that could
display anything we want put any user
interface up and a pointing device we
solved it with the mouse right we solve
this problem so how are we gonna take
this to a mobile device well what we're
gonna do is get rid of all these buttons
and just make a giant screen a giant
screen now how are we gonna communicate
this we don't want to carry around a
mouse right so what are we gonna do Oh a
stylus right we're gonna use a stylus No
who wants a stylus you have to get them
and put them away and you'll lose him
yuck
nobody wants a stylus so let's not use a
stylus we're going to use the best
pointing device in the world we're gonna
use a pointing device that we're all
born with were born with 10 of them
we're gonna use our fingers we're going
to touch us with our fingers and we have
invented a new technology called
multi-touch which is phenomenal it works
like magic you don't need a stylus it's
far more accurate than any touch display
that's ever been shipped it ignores
unintended touches it's super smart you
can do multi-finger gestures on it and
boy have we patented it
so
we've been very lucky to have brought a
few revolutionary user interfaces to the
market in our time
first was the mouse the second was the
click wheel and now we're gonna bring
multi-touch to the market and each of
these revolutionary user interfaces has
made possible a revolutionary product
the Mac the iPod and now the iPhone so a
revolutionary user interface we're gonna
build on top of that with software now
software on mobile phones is like it's
like baby software it's not so powerful
and today we're gonna show you a
software or breakthrough software that's
at least five years ahead of what's on
any other phone now how do we do this
well we start with a strong foundation
iPhone runs OS 10
why
why would we want to run such a
sophisticated operating system on a
mobile device well because it's got
everything we need
it's got multitasking it's got the best
networking it already knows how to power
manage we've been doing this on mobile
computers for years it's got awesome
security and the right apps it's got
everything from cocoa and the graphics
and it's got core animation built in and
it's got the audio and video that OS 10
is famous for it's God all the stuff we
want and it's built right in to iPhone
and that has led us create desktop class
applications and networking right not
the crippled stuff that you find on most
phones this is real desktop class
applications now you know one of the
pioneers of our industry Alan Kay has
had a lot of great quotes throughout the
years and I ran across one of them
recently that explains how we look at
this explains why we go about doing
things the way we do because we love
software and here's the quote people who
are really serious about software should
make their own hardware you know Alan
said this thirty years ago and this is
how we feel about it and so we're
bringing breakthrough software to a
mobile device for the first time it's
five years ahead of anything on any
other phone